# Hangman

Hangman is a Python terminal game which runs in the Code Institute mock terminal on Heroku.

Users have to guess the secret word generated by the computer before the stick man is fully formed. Users can choose a level for easy, medium or hard words.

[You can view the live version of my project here](https://hangman-kk.herokuapp.com/)

---

## How to Play

Originally, Hangman is a two-player pen and paper game where one player thinks of a word and the other player has to guess it by suggesting one letter at a time within a certain number of guesses. You can read more about it on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hangman_(game)).

In this version, the player chooses a difficulty level at the start of the game; easy, medium or hard, and the computer generates a random secret word from the chosen level for the user to guess, with dashes representing the letters of that word.

When a player guesses a letter correctly, it will show up as many times as it appears in the word. 
To win the game, players have to guess the secret word before the hangman is fully formed.

If a player guesses incorrectly, part of the hangman will be drawn. Players will have six wrong attempts to guess the word and on the seventh the hangman will be fully formed and the player loses.

---

## Features

### Existing Features

- Welcome and enter name

- Choose difficulty

- Random word generation
  - Word is hidden from player and dashes are shown for each letter in the word

- Input validation and error checking
  - You cannot guess a number or special character
  - You cannot guess multiple letters at a time
  - You cannot guess the same letter twice 

### Future Features

---

## Data Model

I used the Hangman game class for my data model. This contains the functions for the game to be played by requesting a guess from the player, validating that the user hasn't guessed a digit instead of a letter, more than one letter, or a letter they have already guessed, tracking player progress and drawing the hangman. There is also a function to offer players the option to replay once the game is over.

```python
class Hangman():
    """
    Game class with methods
    """
    def __init__(self, secret_word):
        self.wrong_guess = 0
        self.secret_word = secret_word
        self.progress = list('_' * len(self.secret_word))
```

There are also a number of helper methods included in the class:
- find_secret_word_letters()
- invalid_input_digit()
- invalid_input_len()
- print_game_status()
- update_progress()
- get_user_input()
- get_user_input()
- play()

---

## Testing

For all testing please refer to the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) file.

---

## Deployment

This project was deployed using Code Institute's mock terminal for Heroku.

Steps for deployment:
- Fork or clone this repository
- Create a new Heroku app
- Set the buildbacks to Python and NodeJS in that order
- Link the Heroku app to the repository
- Click on Deploy

---

## Credits

---